.TH NUTCRACKER 8 "June 13, 2013"
.SH NAME
nutcracker \- Fast, light-weight proxy for memcached and Redis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nutcracker
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnutcracker\fP, also known as \fBtwemproxy\fP (pronounced "two-em-proxy"), is
a fast and lightweight proxy for the memcached and Redis protocols.
.PP
It was primarily built to reduce the connection count on backend caching
servers, but it has a number of features, such as:
.IP \[bu]
Maintains persistent server connections to backend servers.
.IP \[bu]
Enables pipelining of requests and responses.
.IP \[bu]
Supports multiple server pools simultaneously.
.IP \[bu]
Shard data automatically across multiple servers.
.IP \[bu]
Supports multiple hashing modes including consistent hashing and
distribution.
.IP \[bu]
High-availability by disabling nodes on failures.
.IP \[bu]
Observability through stats exposed on stats monitoring port.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-test-conf
Test configuration for syntax errors and exit.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-describe-stats
Print stats description and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose=\fIN\fP
Set logging level to \fIN\fP. (default: 5, min: 0, max: 11)
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output=\fIfilename\fP
Set logging file to \fIfilename\fP.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-conf-file=\fIfilename\fP
Set configuration file to \fIfilename\fP.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-stats-port=\fIport\fP
Set stats monitoring port to \fIport\fP.
(default: 22222)
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-stats-addr=\fIaddress\fP
Set stats monitoring IP to \fIaddress\fP.
(default: 0.0.0.0)
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-stats-interval=\fIinterval\fP
Set stats aggregation interval in msec to \fIinterval\fP.
(default: 30000 msec)
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-mbuf-size=\fIsize\fP
Set size of mbuf chunk in bytes to \fIsize\fP. (default: 16384 bytes)
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-daemonize
Run as a daemon.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pid-file=\fIfilename\fP
Set pid file to \fIfilename\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR memcached (8),
.BR redis-server (1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
nutcracker was written by Twitter, Inc.
